We present a theoretical study of the optical spin injection, optical current
injection, and second harmonic generation of two 50\% hydrogenated graphene
structures: C$_{16}$H$_{8}$-alt and C$_{16}$H$_{8}$-up. Optical spin
injection, under the incidence of circularly polarized light onto nonmagnetic
semiconductors, creates spin-polarized electrons in the conduction bands
\cite{dyakonovOO84}. Optical current injection\cite{arzatePRB14} and second-
harmonic generation\cite{loudonOUP00,andersonPRB15} are nonlinear second-
order effects that are allowed in materials without inversion symmetry. The
results are calculated in a full electronic band structure scheme within DFT
in the LDA approximation. Our results show an anisotropic behavior in the
optical responses of the spin injection, the current injection and second
harmonic generation. We obtained maximum absolute magnitudes of the degree of
spin polarization of 61\% and 64\% for the \emph{alt} and \emph{up}
structures, respectively, and it is also possible to optically generate an
injection current coming mainly from the carbon layer on both \emph{alt} and
\emph{up} systems. Besides, we found that both structures are excellent
candidates for second harmonic generation.

Presentamos un estudio te\'orico de injecci\'on \'optica de spin, inyecci\'on
\'optica de corriente y generaci\'on de segundo arm\'onico de dos estructuras
de grafeno hidrogenado al 50\%: C$_{16}$H$_{8}$-alt and C$_{16}$H$_{8}$-up.
La inyección \'optica de spin, bajo la incidencia de luz circularmenet
polarizada sobre semiconductores no magn\'eticos, crea electrones con spin
polarizado en las bandas de conducci\'on\cite{dyakonovOO84}. La inyecci\'on
\'optica de corriente\cite{arzatePRB14} y la generaci\'on de segundo
arm\'onico \cite{loudonOUP00,andersonPRB15} son efectos no lineales de
segundo orden que se presentan en materiales sin inversi\'on de simetr\'ia.
Los resultados fueron calculados usando un esquema de estructura de bandas
electrónica completa usando DFT con una aproximaci\'on LDA. Nuestros
resultados muestran un comportamiento anisotr\'opico en las respuestas
\'opticas de inyecci\'on de spin, inuyecci\'on de corriente y generaci\'on de
segundo arm\'onico. Obtuvimos magnituds absolutas m\'aximas del grado de
polarizaci\'on de spin de 61\% y 64\% para las estructuras \emph{alt} y
\emph{up}, respectivamente, y adem\'as es posible generar inyecci\'on de
corriente que proviene principalmente de la capa de carbonos de ambos
sistemas. Tambi\'en encontramos que ambas estructuras son excelentes
candidatos para la generaci\'on de segundo arm\'onico.
